[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
Pam created this podcast to share of
professional experience and insights and
help you to be a great fee to be
marketer you enjoy the podcast please
share it with your colleagues and leave
a review on iTunes now let's get started
[Music]
hello welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more with Pam dinner this
is Pam here's a podcast that I share my
no house and templates I want to help
you see b2b marketing from different
lights and be a better b2b marketer
well-rounded that is in the episode one
zero one I've talked about what is a
messaging framework and the steps that
you can take to create a solid one I
don't want to repeat that before today's
episode I want to talk about the
template what is the template that you
can use to create a product specific
messaging framework obviously it's very
hard to talk about a template a podcast
if you think about it is I don't have
anything to show you like you know
visually but I would appreciate that you
can just visualize it and follow along
okay and I also understand not every one
of you I need to create messaging
framework I get that however it's kind
of important to know how it's done
because you want to be well rounded the
more you know about me to be marketing
how others do their jobs the more you
can connect the dots and better help
your internal stakeholders so that get
started
product specific messaging framework
when I talk about template there are
multiple fields that you have to fill
them out the first one is product
product family name right so put down
the name of the product and don't put
like I said a company or a brand
specifically messaging frameworks tends
to be product specific if you think
about it when we me something or when we
want to buy something and we are
thinking about to solve our means or
satisfy our desires here is a great
example when we are thirsty we think
about hmm we need to drink some water
we are not necessarily thinking about
okay I want to drink Fuji water or I
want to drink
aquafina right as a marketer obviously
that's why we strive to achieve when a
customer needs something they think of
our brand that's basically Nirvana of
marketing but when you create messaging
framework you need to bring that down to
the ground it needs to be product
specific all right so that's the first
field which is product names the second
field is target audience obviously you
create a product that means you want to
sell the product to a group of
individuals right or audience segments
so identify one audience segment if all
possible many people ask me can I add or
feel out like two or more say buyers
persona or audience segments well yes
you can
if these audiences face similar
challenges and the pinpoints and your
talking points are very similar when you
talk to them then you can actually have
two or more but the rule of thumb is one
just have one audience segment okay the
next field or element is a value
proposition you need to craft one
statement to explain your products
differentiation in the marketplace in
other words how do you compare your
product with that of your competitors
for sales force is very clear
the value publishing is the number one
see I am in the world right the next
field after you craft that one statement
of value proposition is customer
challenge so if you can write down three
customer challenges that you'll products
or services can solve I love following
the rule of three
list three key customer challenges right
like one or two statements per challenge
and use the first person like I need to
solve blah blah blah or I have this
challenge of a blah blah blah the reason
to write as the first person is that you
want your internal teams or agencies to
read the challenges as if they are the
customers so basically why the customer
challenge as the first person it's also
okay to actually write as a third person
but my recommendation is always right
customer challenges use the first person
so one example of the customer
challenges for the CI mTOR can be hey I
need to see my dashboard anywhere and
anytime using any devices alright okay
so if that's one of the customer
challenges the next feel is messaging
positioning and this should correctly
and directly tie with the customer
challenge and the customer challenge I
listed I share with you earlier is I
need to see the dashboard anywhere
anytime using any devices right so when
I ride that one stamen or one sentence
of the messaging pillar it can be hey
your dashboard at your fingertips right
this is my messaging positioning then
the next field is a product features so
you talk about the customer challenges
you talk about your messaging pillar
which is one statement the next things
is you need to identify a specific
product features that will substantiate
your positioning statement does that
make sense so and that's very important
actually in the b2b and technology
selling you need to call out a specific
features
so the product features for to have you
a dashboard and your fingertips maybe
hey we have a mobile app the mobile app
is available so that you can access your
dashboard anytime from any devices right
but that's probably easy to explain
because that's the product features the
next one is actually user benefits
sometimes sometimes the product features
can be super technical if that's the
case you need to be able to explain the
technical product features in plain
English so that it resonates with your
target audience the product benefits for
this specific case can be accessed
dashboard from anywhere anytime from any
devices or from device to device if you
put everything together all the fields I
just mentioned I started from product
name I move to target audience then I
create an overarching value proposition
right that overarching publishing guide
the customer challenges and you tend to
get the customer challenges from talking
to your customers or the buyers persona
from there I create messaging pillar to
address each customer challenge and
after that I identify product features
to address the messaging pillar or
substantiate the messaging pillar then I
translate the product features to user
benefits so did you see somehow how that
framework looks like right so its
products target audience value
proposition customer challenge messaging
pillars product features followed by
user benefits that is it that's it
actually for the product specific
messaging framework there's one thing I
want to share with you and this is kind
of like optional giving that when I do
the messaging framework I do a lot of
research so I always have a a sense in
terms of list of the keywords that
related to my clients products so I
usually add
the bonus a list of keywords as optional
field I list a list of keywords and say
this is actually great for water content
creation and agency and comic creators
love it because they know what keywords
to use when they start creating content
is safe than tons of time messaging
remains the crucial and vital foundation
for external communications and channel
sales training so here is a quick
summary number one if you want to create
a messaging framework use a template
number two make sure that your template
is logical and a hierarchical right so
you have a challenges and challenges
type with the product features and
product features type with user benefits
so that make sense
number three review and the test your
messaging with your product teams sales
and the customers if you want my
template just go to my website p.m.
dinner calm and a hit the contact tab
and send me a quick email or you can
contact me reach out to me through any
social media channels I'm on Twitter
Facebook and LinkedIn
once I get you an email I'll send you
the template and written samples in no
time so if you like the content please
comment and subscribe to my podcast I'll
share more templates in the future
podcast so stay tuned I know that is
hard to imagine that from time to time
but just bear with me I think it's
actually useful again I really
appreciate that you like and subscribe
my podcast in the meantime have a great
day
if you enjoyed this podcast please share
it with your colleagues and review on
iTunes
[Music]